StreamAPI:
----------

StreamAPI is introduced in Java 8.  
StreamAPI contains the classes for processing the objects. 
StreamAPI is present in package java.util.stream

IOStreams(java.io) are different from StreamAPI(java.util.stream)
IOStreams are for performing read and write operations on files. 
Whereas StreamAPI is used to process the collection of objects. 

Stream: A Stream is a sequence of objects. 
        A stream supports various methods which can be used to process
        the object to produce the desired output. 
        
        
PipeLine definition:
------------------- 
Pipeline in StreamAPI is a sequence of stream operations. 

Pipeline: 
--------
Collection->Stream -> Stream Operations -> Result

StreamAPI supports 2 types of operations:
1. Intermediate operations: 
   These operations allow us to transform or filter the objects before 
   the final result is produced
   These operations can be chained one after the other. 
   
2. Terminal Operations: 
  Terminals operations are the operations which produce a result such as a List or Set
  or to iterate and display the produced result. 
  
  
  Lazy evaluation vs Eager evaluation: 
  - Lazy evaluation is used by itermediate operations like map(), filter(), sorted()
  - These opeations are called lazy because they are not executed immediately when the stream is created.
  - Actual operations starts only when terminal operations like collect(), forEach(), count() etc is invoked. 
  
  Eager Evaluation: 
  - Terminal operations like collect() , forEach() will trigger(start) the execution of all the 
     intermediate operations
  - as soon as terminal operation is called,  it immediately executes the intermediate operations. 
  - thats why terminal operations are called eager operations. 
  
  
reduce()
  --------
reduce() takes multiple values and reduces them to one value using a combining operation.

General Syntax
---------------
T result = stream.reduce(identity, (accumulator, element) -> newResult);

where, 
Identity → Initial value (starting point)
Accumulator → Logic to combine values
Result → Single final value
   
    

