OOP - Object Oriented Programming

class: Template or a blueprint for an object
       Class is a logical entity. 
       
object: Instance of a class.

Instance variables: 
- Instance variables are the variables which belong to each 
  instance.
- They are created inside a class, outside the method
- Everytime when we create an object a seperate copy of instance
  variables is created for object
- instance variables are stored in heap memory

Default values are assigned to instance variables: 
byte,short, int,long - 0
float,double = 0.0
char- nullcharacter 
boolean - false




BankAccount: 
- accountNumbet long
- accountHolder String
- accountType - String
- balance - double

Instantiation: Creation of an instance(object)
Initialization: Providing the values to instance variables


Constructor:
Constructor is used to initialize an object. 
Everytime when we create a class, a default constructor gets created. 
The constructor will have the same name as the class name.

Constructor can be of different types: 
1. Default constructor: A constructor which gets created when class is created
    - Default constructor will not have any arguments, it is also called no argument constructor. 
    
2. Parameterized constructor 





public void displayEmployeeDetails(Employee emp){

System.out.println(emp.id);
System.out.println(emp.name);
Polymorphism: 

Polymorphism means "many forms"
The ability of a method to take multiple forms depending on
the situattion is called polymorphism.

Same action but different behaviour. 

eg:
add() method can add 2 numbers, 3numbers etc.
Same method name different implementations

Different types of polymorphisms supported by Java: 
1. Compile time polymorphism :
Compile time polymorphism is a type of polymorphism where the 
method call is resolved at compile time. 

It is also called as
Static polymorphism or
Early Binding   or
Static binding

Static polymorphism is achieved by method overloading
- same method name
- different parameters

It is called compile-time polymorphism because
- the compiler decides which method to call
- based on the
    - number of arguments
    - type of the arguments
    - order of the arguments
    
    
Inheritance: 
Acquiring the properties of a parent by the child class is called inheritance;

Inheritance can be done in different ways: 
1. Single inheritance - A Single child class inheriting from Single Parent class. 
      Class Parent
        |
      Class Child
      
      Child inheriting Parent OR Child extends Parent


2. Multilevel inheritance: A  class is inherited from another class, which is also inherited
from an another  class forming a chain of inheritance.This is multilevel inheritance. 

    A  String name; void displayA(){}
     |
     B void displayB(){}   
     |
     C void displayC(){}
     |
     D  void displayD(){}
     
     B extends A  - dispayB(),B automatically inherits name and displayA()
     C extends B  - displayC(),automatically inherits name, displayA(),displayB()
     D extends C   - displayD(), automatially inherits name, displayA(), displayB(), displayC()

3. Hierarchial Inheritance:
When a class is inherited by multiple child classes, this is known as Hierarchial inheritance.

4. Multiple inheritance: 
    Multiple parents inherited by a child class.Java does not support multiple inheritance. 
    
    
             
       
    
    
    





Parent class      Child class
super class       sub class
Base classs       Derived class





Create a class SalaryAccount, which  inherits BankAccount class. 
Override the method in BankAccount class. 






super keyword: 

super keyword can be used in 2 different ways. 

1. super with parenthesis or super()

super() is used to call the super class constructor
super() when used in child class must be the first statemenet
of your constructor. 

By default, every constructor of a class has implicit
super() call. 

2. super without parenthesis - super
- super keyword without parenthesis is used to access 
  super class method or variables. 
  


Encapsulation: 
- Binding of methods and variables in a single entity called class is known as encapsulation. 

- The variables in an encapsulated class must be made secure with private keyword. 

- By making them private, direct access to the variables is restricted from external classes. 

- To provide restricted  access to the private variables,  public getters and setters are 
  to be created for the private variables. 
-  The public getter methods and setter methods are also known as 
   accessors and mutators,
   
- Encapsulation allows us to validate the data provided in the setter method. 

 
final keyword: 

final keyhword in java can be used with
1. class:
final keyword when applied to a class, it
cannot be inherited by other classes. 

Syntax:

public final class className {}

2. variable:

When 'final' keyword is applied to a variable, the value of the variable cannot be reset or reassigned. 
eg: 
private final double interestRate =5.5;


3. method

When final keyword is applied in the method declaration, the method cannot be overridden in the child classes.
eg: 
public final double getBalance() {
		return balance; 
		
}


Abstraction:

Hiding the implementation details and exposing only the relevant details is known as abstraction. 


Concrete method:
----------------
A method with body/implementation is known as concrete method

eg: 
	public void x(){
		//statements
	}

abstract method: 
----------------
A method which does not provide body/implementation is known as abstract method. 
An abstract method is terminated with a semicolon;

eg: public void myAbstractMethod(); 


Abstraction can be achieved in java by using: 

1. Abstract class:

An abstract class is a class in which you can have both concrete 
methods and abstract methods.

- An abstract class must always be extended by other classes.
- When a class extends an abstract class, all the abstract methods of the 
  abstract class must be implemented/overridden.
- Abstract classes cannot be instantiated, meaning, we cannot create an 
  object of an abstract class, we can only create an object for a child class
  which inherits abstract class.   
- An abstract class can have constructors. 
- Variables can also be declared in the abstract class. 

Syntax:

 abstract class className{}
 
 - To create an abstract class we need to use the keyword 'abstract class'
  before the classname.
  
- The abstract methods in the abstract class must also use the keyword
  'abstract' in the method declaration. 
  
- It is not mandatory in the child class 
  to override concrete methods in the abstract class. 

-


2. Interface






1. Create an abstract class BankAccount.

🔹 Requirements:
Variables:
- accountNumber
- balance

Methods:
deposit(double amount) → common/concrete method

Abstract method:

abstract void withdraw(double amount);

Step 2: 🔹 Create subclasses:
---------------------------
SavingsAccount extends BankAcount
  -Minimum balance rule (e.g., 1000)

CurrentAccount extends BankAccount

Allow overdraft (e.g., -5000)
🔹 Task:
Implement withdraw() based on rules
Test in main class


Interfaces: 
===========
In Java abstraction can be achieved by using interface.

Interface tells us what to do, but it  will not tell how to do. 
It defines  a contract(what to do)

By default abstract methods are allowed in interfaces.
But from Java 8+ onwards concrete methods like 'default' and 'static' methods are allowed

Interface can have variables. 
Variables declared in interface are implicitly public,  static and final. 

Methods in the interface by default public

To implement an interface in the class we use the keyword "implements"


Interfaces are generally called as 100% abstraction.

 
Write a program in which an application can send notifications/messages
through different ways. 
step1: 
create an interface - NotificationService

methods in interface:
void sendMessage(String message)
void sendAlert(String message);

ste2: Implementing classes
1. EmailNotification implements NotificationService
- sendMessage() will send "Email message"
- sendAlert() will send "Email Alert message"

2. SMSNotification  implements NotificationService
     sendMessage → "SMS sent: message"
      sendAlert → "SMS ALERT: message"                

step3: Main class - Name the class as NotificationApp
- Create objects for all notification types
- Call both methods
- Use interface reference:





Access Modifiers: 


         Same class   Other class in Same Package    Different Package
         ----------   ---------------------------    -----------------
public      Y              Y                            Y
private     Y              N                            N
Default     Y              Y                            N
Protected   Y              Y                            Y (when the class is the subclass)




private<default<protected<public

Access modifiers are keywords used to control the visibility of classes, variables and methods. 
Types of Access Modifiers: 

public: 
Accessible from anywhere within and outside the package

protected: 
Accessible within the same package and also in the subclasses in different packages

default(no modifier):
Accessible only within the same package, it is also known as package-private modifier/

private: 
access only within the same class. 

Access Modifiers rules in Method overriding:
--------------------------------------------

Whena  child class overrides a parent class method, access modifiers follow strict rules: 

1. We cannot reduce the visibility of parent method when overridden in child class. 
   But we can increase the visibility.

If the parent method is public
overridden method in child must also be public

If parent method is protected
overridden method in chidl can be protected and public

If parent method is default


Covariant return types: 
- Java allows method overriding with a more specific return type(subclass)
- Introduced in java 5
- It works only in inheritance
- Return type in child must be same or subclass of parent return type















