Thread:
A thread is an executional path or a sequence
in a program  . 

Where do threads exist?

- When we switch on the computer, a special program called Operating
system is loaded from hard disk to memory(RAM)

- This OS will help us to interact with hardware and the CPU.

- When you try to use any application in your computer,
  the OS will take that application program from the disk and 
  creates an instance of that application in the memory. 
  
- This instance is called as process or context of the application

- Each process contains : 
   - PID
   - files which application use for reading and writing data.
   - code 
   - data in the heap
   - main thread
      - main thread is the thread used by JVM to execute a program
      - main thread will have its own stack, and instruction pointer. 
         Stack: a region in the memory where local variables or
                 object references and methods are executed
         Instruction Pointer: It is a pointer which points to the 
           address of the next instruction which the thread is going
           to execute.
           
   Process vs threads: 
   -------------------
    Memory: 
   Each process will have its own memory. 
   Thread will share the memory with other threads in the process
   
    Weight: 
    -------
    Process is heavy weight as it takes more time to start and stop
    It consumes more memory and other system resources. 
    Switching from one process to other takes time. 
    
    Thread  lightweight, they share the memory wilth other
    threads in the process. 
    Threads take less time to start and stop. 
    
    
    
Thread creation: 
-----------------


1. By extending Thread class. 

Thread class is present in java.lang package.

- We can create a thread by extending Thread class. 

steps: 
1. Create a class which extends Thread
	2. provide implementation for run() method. 
	   public void run(){
	   
	   // print the numbers from 1 to 10 using for loop
	   }
	
    What ever we want to do with the Thread must be placed in the run() method. 
   
   Syntax:
      public void run(){
      //thread logic
      }
 	3. After creating a Thread:
 		To use/start the thread
 	 		a. Create your thread class object
 	 		b. use object reference to call start()
 	     
 	
 	the thread runs by calling start() method. 
    	 start() method will automatically calln the ruh() method of Thread.
    
2.  By implementing Runnable interface.
     Runnable interface is peesent in java.lang
     
     a. Create a class and implement Runnable interface
     b. Runnable interface has a single abstract method
       - it is run()
     c. After implementing run() , we need to call the Thread. 
     
3. A thread created either with Thread class or Runnable,
   it must be started by calling start() method.
   
4. To call a Runnable thread, 
         1. Create an object of Runnable Thread
         2  Create an objet of Thread class 
         4. And pass the RunnableThread object reference to the Thread constructor.

Create a thread using Thread class, and try to print the numbers from 1 to 10. 

   
 Thread methods: 
 1. start(): 
   - starts a new thread
   - it internally calls run()

 2. run() 
    - run() contains the task logic
    - it must not be called directly, 
    - it will be automatically called when start() is invoked

 3. sleep() 
    - temporarily stop execution of the thread
    - sleep(milliseconds) - will pause the thread for specified milliseconds
    - It is  a static method of Thread class.
       so it must be called by using class name eg. Thread.sleep(500);
 
 4. join():
    - it will make the current thread wait until another thread finishes. 
    - it is used to control the execution order.
    
    
  Thread Life cycle:
  
  - A thread goes through different lifecycles during its execution. 
     We get the Thread state by using Thread.State
     
   1. New : A thread is NEW state when the thread is created but not started yet. 
   eg: Thread t1 = new Thread(); 
      start(() is not called yet. 
      
   2. RUNNABLE state: 
      - Thread is ready to run(waiting for CPU)
      - Thread is in RUNNABLE state when start() method is called. 
      
   3. RUNNING state: 
       When the thread is currently running, it is calle RUNNING state.
       When run() method is called thread is in RUNNING STATE
   
   4. BLOCKED state: 
      - A  thread is said to be in a BLOCKED state when it is waiting
        for another thread to release the lock. 
   5. WAITING state: 
       - When a thread is continuously waiting for another thread
         eg: when join() method is called, the currently running thread
              will go to WAITING state. 
              
   6. TIMED_WAITING state: 
       -A thread will wait for a specific time
       eg: sleep(500);
           join(500);
       A thread in TIMED_WAITING State will automatically wakes  up after 
        the specified time. 
        
        
   7. TERMINATED (Dead) state: 
   - A Thread goes into TERMINATED state when the run() method completes.
   - A thread cannot be restarted after  it goes to TERMINATED state. 
   - A threads life ends here. 
   
   Lifecycle: 
   NEW → RUNNABLE → RUNNING → 
           (BLOCKED / WAITING / TIMED_WAITING) → RUNNABLE → TERMINATED
       
  
  Thread Priority:
  ---------------
  
  Thread Priority is a numerical value assigned to a thread   
  - It indicates the importance for CPU Scheduling. 
  
  - It is a hint given to Thread scheduler about which thread
  should be executed first when multiple threads are ready to run. 
 
 Priority range: 
 Minimum priority - 1 
 Default - 5  , this is called NORMAL priority
 Maximum =10 , this is highest priority for a thread. 
 
 Higher priority threads will get more chance to use CPU time. 
 Lower priority threads will get less chance to use CPU time.  
 
 But threads will not always be scheduled by CPU as per the priority.
 Priority is not always guaranteed. 
 
 The Priority depends on JVM + Operating system Scheduler 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
       
       
        
     
     
   
   
   
   
   
       
  
    
    
    
    
        
    
 
    
   

























    
    
    
  

